= simplepay (Rails Amazon Simple Pay Interface)

http://simplepay.rubyforge.org

== DESCRIPTION:

This gem provides a Rails 3 interface to the Amazon Simple Pay payment service.

== FEATURES/PROBLEMS:

Supports the following Amazon Simple Pay services:

* Standard
* Subscription
* Marketplace
* Donation

== SYNOPSIS:

Add simplepay to your Bundler Gemfile

    (in Gemfile)
    
    gem "simplepay"

Configure the gem with your Amazon Web Services credentials:

    (in config/initializers/simplepay.rb)
    
    Simplepay.aws_access_key_id     = 'MYAMAZONACCESSKEYID'
    Simplepay.aws_secret_access_key = 'MYAMAZONSECRETACCESSKEY'

Then, let Rails know about the Simplepay::Helpers:

    (in app/controllers/application_controller.rb)
    
    require 'simplepay/rails'

=== Obtaining Amazon Web Services Credentials
    
1) Create an Amazon Payments Personal Account
    https://payments.amazon.com/sdui/sdui/basicaccount
    or on Sandbox:
    https://payments-sandbox.amazon.com/sdui/sdui/basicaccount

2) Create an Amazon Payments Business Account
    https://payments.amazon.com/sdui/sdui/premiumaccount
    or in the sandbox for testing 
    https://payments-sandbox.amazon.com/sdui/sdui/premiumaccount
    
3)  Create an Amazon Web Services Account  
    https://aws-portal.amazon.com/gp/aws/developer/registration/index.html

4)  Retrieve the Access Key ID and Secret Access Key
    https://aws-portal.amazon.com/gp/aws/developer/account/index.html?ie=UTF8&action=access-key

Note that the AWS Access Key ID and Secret Access Key is good for both testing in the sandbox and for production use.

=== Generating your Simple Pay forms

Generally, this library will then be used directly from one (or more) of your 
views.  Depending on the type of Simple Pay service you're using (see 
Simplepay::Services), some form values will be required, while others may be 
optional.  This is done like so:

    <%= simplepay_form_for(:standard, {
      :amount       => 10.95,
      :description  => "Profit!"
    }) %>
    
    <%= simplepay_form_for(:subscription, {
      :amount                 => 10.95,
      :description            => "MORE Profit!",
      :recurring_frequency    => "1 month"
    }) %>


=== Marketplace forms

Amazon Simple Pay Marketplace makes it easy to facilitate payments between
buyers and sellers, and to charge a fee for the transaction. If you're building
a marketplace application, your sellers must first agree to the policy that you
set. You can do this by specifying the Simplepay::Services::MarketplacePolicy
service:

    <%= simplepay_form_for(:marketplace_policy, {
      :max_fixed_fee => 5.00,
      :max_variable_fee => 5,
      :return_url => 'http://yourservice.com',
      :reference_id => '1234567890'
    }) %>

The user will be prompted to login to their Amazon account and accept the policy
you propose. After they complete the process, they'll be returned to the return_url
specified. Amazon will also provide a recipientEmail parameter that will contain
the seller email here (you may want to craft your return url so that it contains the
reference_id value and use this to 'acknowledge' a sellers consent and record their
Amazon recipient email address).

Only once this is done will you be able to offer marketplace checkout options for
that sellers items:

    <%= simplepay_form_for(:marketplace, {
      :amount                   => 34.95,
      :description              => "Mutual profit!",
      :recipient_email          => 'seller@gmail.com',
      :fixed_marketplace_fee    => 10.00,
      :variable_marketplace_fee => 5
    }) %>
      
== INSTALL:

    sudo gem install simplepay

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2008 Nathaniel E. Bibler
Copyright (c) 2011 Derrick Parkhurst

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
